***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:
programing language is a set of codes and commands that a computer can understand. 


What is a JDK composed of? Define each component?
Answer:JDK is core kit(package) used in Java, it comes with JVM and JRE.
JRE stands for "Java Runtime Environment"  an installation package that provides an environment to only run(not develop) the java program(or application)onto the machine.
JVM stands for  Virtual Machine, because it doesn't physically exist. It is a specification that provides a runtime environment in which Java bytecode can be executed.


What is an IDE?
Answer: IDE is the Integrated Development Environment that provides the user interface for code development, testing and debugging features.
It helps to organize the project artifacts that are relevant to the source code of the software application.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans, BlueJ, JDeveloper, DrJava, JCreator,

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:Create the high-level Java text file We can use any text editor to do that this file is saved as a .java file.
* Compile the .java file which result in a .class file using java compiler(javac) this file contains the bytecodes.
* Load .class file into memory by the class loader.
* Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translates them into machine code.

What is a class?
Answer:A class is the blueprint from which individual objects are created.


What is an object?
Answer: object is an instance of a class. A class is a template or blueprint from which objects are created.
So, an object is the instance(result) of a class.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:he main() method is the entry point of each and every Java program.

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:Since main() method is the entry point of any Java application.
There is no object of the class available at the time of starting java runtime, and because of that,
we have to define the main() method as static. By doing that, JVM can load the class into the main memory and call the main() method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: the object class .

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:ATH is an environment variable used by our Operating System to locate different files, like executable files (.exe) or java binaries
CLASSPATH is also an environment variable,is used by System or Application class loader to locate and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:An abstract class is not 100% abstract. Abstract classes may contain concrete methods and/or abstract methods. Abstract classes, like interfaces, are unable to be instantiated.
Interfaces are 100% abstract. By default, all variables declared within an interface are public, static and final, and all methods declared are considered public and abstract

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer: We can't instantiate an interface or an abstract class because it would defy the object oriented model.
interface have only abstract methods abstract class may have abstract method
and the object is concrete so we can not create and abstract object.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer: As the name suggests access modifiers in Java helps to restrict the scope of a class, constructor, variable, method, or data member.
There are four types of access modifiers available in java:
Default  No keyword required : accessible only within the same package.
Private : accessible only within the same class.
Protected :accessible within the same package or subclasses(child) in different packages.
Public : accessible everywhere.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:Object Oriented Programming it creates objects that contains both data and methods.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:java package contains related classes. 

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:(Application Programming Interface). are mechanisms that enable two software components to communicate with each
other using a set of definitions and protocols.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:multiple inheritances is not allowed in java, The reason behind this is to prevent ambiguity. Consider a case
where class B extends class A and Class C and both class A and C have the same method display(). Now java compiler
cannot decide, which display method it should inherit

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer: Method overloading is a form of polymorphism in OOP. Polymorphism allows objects or methods to act in different
 ways, according to the means in which they are used. One such manner in which the methods behave according to their
 argument types and number of arguments is method overloading. Method overloading can be done by changing:

 The number of parameters in two methods.
 The data types of the parameters of methods.
 The Order of the parameters of methods.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Put the code you want to run in the try block, and
 any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks. This method will catch any type of
 Java exceptions that get thrown.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods, blocks
and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. Basically,
static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:is a non-access modifier used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them non-changeable (impossible
to inherit or override). The final keyword is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value.
for example, the variable for months wont will always fall in between 01-12.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer: final is an access modifier, finally is the block in Exception Handling and finalize is the method of object
class.

What is a constructor?
Answer: a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: yes we can.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:All In that case,Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called "default constructor".

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:Refers to the current object in a method or constructor. The most common use of the this keyword is to eliminate
 the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name.

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: super refer to superclass (parent).It is used to call superclass methods, and to access the superclass
constructor. The most common use of the super keyword is to eliminate the confusion between superclasses and subclasses
that have methods with the same name.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer: Java Virtual Machine, loads, verifies and executes Java bytecode.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:no, JVM is platform dependent, and Java is platform independent.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: 18

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:Java ARchive. It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used for aggregating many files
into one. Although JAR can be used as a general archiving tool,

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: The JVM is an abbreviation for Java Virtual Machine. The JDK (Java Development Kit) is a software development
 kit that develops applications in Java

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE identifies all the helpful class libraries needed for execution, while JVM is a subclass of JRE that decodes
 the bytecode into machine language and other minor tasks.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer: Compile-time is the period when the programming code  is converted to the machine.
        Run-time is the period of time when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
Answer:is a special data structure in Java. A heap is a tree-based data structure and can be classified as a complete
 binary tree.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread-safe
and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.

What is Singleton class?
Answer: a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the
reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer: While loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement(s), whereas do while loop will execute
the statement(s) at least once, then the condition is checked. While loop is entry controlled loop, whereas do while
is exit controlled loop

What is Enum?
Answer:An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants(unchangeable variables, like final variables).

what is
Answer:

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer: int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store.
        Integer ,is an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes).

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer: because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: the process of calling a sequence of constructors. We can do it in 2 ways: by using this() keyword ,
or using super() keyword

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: The primary difference between the serial and parallel collectors is that the parallel collector has multiple
threads that are used to speed up garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the Java™ Runtime Environment that improves the performance
of Java applications at run time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer: Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.Java programs
compile to bytecode that can be run on a Java Virtual Machine, or JVM for short. When Java programs run on the JVM,
 objects are created on the heap, which is a portion of memory dedicated to the program.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains any reference to those objects.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:it is a feature. It allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate
internal properties of the program.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer: the process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer: Synchronization  is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer:bodies of reusable pre-written code acting as templates that developers can use to create applications by
filling in custom code as needed.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:JBehave,
       JUnit,
       Serenity,
       TestNG
       Selenide
       Gauge
       Geb
       Spock.

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer: JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that is
an upgraded option for running tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer: SDK 18. JAVA 18

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:(DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding