***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer: data structure needed because Java programmers use data structures to store and organize data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: Insertion : Add a new data item in the data structure .
        Sorting : Arranging the data items in some order
        Deletion : Delete an existing data item from the data structure.
        Traversal : Access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
        Searching : Find out the location of the data item if it exists in the data structure


When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:in many many areas such as :Database Management System- Operating System -  Numerical Analysis-  Graphics -
Artificial Intelligence - Simulation,...


What is an Array?
Answer: An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
         We cannot change the length of an array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed.

What is a LinkedList?
Answer: The LinkedList class is a collection which can contain many objects of the same type, just like the ArrayList.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
 Answer: An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type whereas Linked List is an ordered collection of
 elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

What is a Queue?
Answer: Queue is an interface available in java. util package and extends java.

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer: A Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure. It supports two basic operations called push and pop.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: FIFO -> is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first
element is processed first and the newest element is processed last.
LIFO ->is an abbreviation for Last in, first out is same as fist in, last out (FILO). It is a method for handling data
structures where the last element is processed first and the first element is processed last.

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: Big O Notation is a relative representation of an algorithm's complexity. Generally, an algorithm has an
asymptotic computational complexity. Assuming the input is of size N, we can say that the algorithm will finish at
O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The best case to search an element for an array is by converting an Array to an ArrayList.

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: using a for-each loop !

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer: In data structure a Tree is a non-linear data structure where data objects are organized in terms of a
hierarchical relationship.

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:  A graph is a data structure for sorting connected data like a network of people on a social media platform.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: HashMap isn't synchronized, and it doesn't allow any null key or value and a HashTable is synchronized which
allows multiple null value.

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer: It allows to store object and retrieve it when provided with key and value

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer: it is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access an array element with an illegal index.
This exception occurs when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: 4 ways ;
 1-Manually copy elements one by one into the new array.
 2-Directly copy one array to another by using Arrays.copyOf() method.
 3-System.arraycopy() method can be used to copy a subset of an array.
 4-Object.clone() method creates a new array of the same size.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: BFS(Breadth First Search) uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path.
        DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure. BFS is a traversal approach in which we first walk through
        all nodes on the same level before moving on to the next level.

What is Recursion?
Answer: Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself. This technique provides a way to break
complicated problems down into simple problems which are easier to solve.

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer: In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every element is
attached to its previous and next adjacent.
In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically manner

Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
Insertion Sort 0(n)
Selection Sort:	O(n^2)
Bubble Sort:	O(n)
Heap Sort:	O(n log(n))
Quick Sort:	O(n log(n))
Merge Sort:	O(n log(n))
Bucket Sort:	O(n +k)
Radix Sort:	O(nk)
Count Sort:	O(n +k)
Shell Sort:	O(n log(n))
Tim Sort:	O(n)
Tree Sort:	O(n log(n))
Cube Sort:	O(n)

